 

CALUMET COUNTY SHERIFF'S DEPARTMENT

Page

484
Complaint No. File Number
050 157955 3:

 

TYPE or Acnvny: Interview oi Brendan bassey at Two Rivers Police biog}:- *2»
DATE or Acnvm: 01/17/06

REPORTING OFFICER. Inv. Mark \Viegen

 

 

WEEGERT' All right, Brendm, um, one thing going to ask you to do 15W
start talking, you're going to have to speak up right now like I am so the mikes, they won tptek
up real well. But before we ask any question Brendnn, um, lhave to read you your rights it 5
just what we have to do ...steps on Beiore we aslt you any questions you must understand
your rights. You have the right to remain silent. Anything you say eon be used against you in
eourt. You have the right to, you have the right to talle, to a lawyer {or adviee herore we ask you
any questions and have him with wu during questioning You have this right to the advice and
presence oia lawyer even though you cannot afford to hire one. We have no Way or gelling you
a lawyer but one will be appointed for you ifyml wish and ifand when you go to mun. Hyou
wish to answer qumﬁcms now without a lawyer present, you have the right to stop answering
questions any time. You also have the right to stop answering questions at any time tuttil you
tallt to a lawyer. l have read the above statement ofmy rights l understand what my rights are, I
am willing to answer questions and to make statements, I do not want a lawyer. I understand
and know what I am doing. No promises or tiueats have been made to me and no pressure of
any kind has been used against me. no you agree with that?

BRENDAN: Yeah.
WEEGERT: You have to speak up a little bit.

BRENDAN: Yeah:

WIEGERT: Yes?

BRENDAN: Yes.

WIEGERT: Then if you agree with making a statement, i need you to sign tight there

and ifyou wanna read it, you can read it there. (pause) Why don‘t you put your initials here and
put your initials here. These are the two things 1 read to you. (pause) OK, and I’mjnsl going to
put the place up here, Two Rivers Police szmmem, and the date is 2/27/06, and the time is

, opptoxintately 3:21 pm. OK. let‘s put that over there for now. Um, Brendan, just a few things. ._

OK, we‘re going to tallr about what you had initially told us earlier, OK. Um, an you state your
full name with middle initial and date ofbinh’l

BRENDAN. Brendan Rny Dassey and Ihen 10/19] of 89,

   

