West Memphis Three Trials: 
The Jesse Misskelley Trial (January 26 - February 4, 1994)

Detective Bryn Ridge
Witness for the Prosecution

January 26, 1994

Direct Examination

RIDGE: I'm Bryn Ridge. I am a detective for the West Memphis Police department.

FOGLEMAN: And, how long have you been in law enforcement?

RIDGE: Over 10 years

FOGLEMAN: Now detective Ridge I want to direct your attention to May the 6th, 1993. Now, what part if any, did you play in the investigation of the disappearance of Michael Moore, Stevie Branch and Chris Byers?

RIDGE: I participated in the search for the missing juveniles. And also in the discovery of the bodies.

FOGLEMAN: Uh, approximately what time did you begin your search efforts?

RIDGE: About 7:30 AM that morning

FOGLEMAN: And what area were you assigned to search?

RIDGE: I went first to Robin Hood Hills, this park on north McCauley.

FOGLEMAN: And, if you would, if you take the pointer and just point to the area that you went to.

RIDGE: (pointing) I went here, into this area of Robin Hood Hills.

FOGLEMAN: How far in did you go?

RIDGE: Uh, there is a hill, this is a pipe you cross right here of this bayou ditch there is a hill you can see a path coming across that hill, I went to just into the woods right there by that path.

FOGLEMAN: Was there anybody else in the woods?

RIDGE: Yes sir, there was one other person.

FOGLEMAN: Who was that?

RIDGE: It was a young man on a bicycle that was searching, hollering for the kids also.

FOGLEMAN: I want to show you what's marked for identification as State's Exhibit 13 and ask if you can identify that.

RIDGE: Yes sir, that's a diagram of a area known as Robin Hood Hills.

FOGLEMAN : Your honor we would offer State's Exhibit 13.

STIDHAM: No objection Your Honor.

THE COURT: Alright, it may be received without objection.

FOGLEMAN: Now on the diagram, of course it's not 3 dimensional so you can't show the hills, but where is it exactly that you went?

RIDGE: (pointing) Across this pipe, I parked my vehicle here, across this pipe, walked up this trail, there was another trail that's somewhat dimmer than this trail that went across a hill and it comes to this point right in here. That's where I went to.

FOGLEMAN: Okay.

FOGLEMAN: You can retake the stand.

FOGLEMAN: Alright now, about what time of the day was that?

RIDGE: That would have been early, probably at about 8:00 in the morning.

FOGLEMAN: And then where did you go?

RIDGE: Then the search just scattered from there. I actually searched the weeded area that's west of there to 7th street and then from 7th street back to my vehicle and just (FOGLEMAN interrupts)

FOGLEMAN: Alright, the jury is not going to know where 7th street is, so if you could take down the crime scene diagram and if the aerial photographs shows the area where you searched then if could you point that out to the jury.

RIDGE: Okay. (Pointing) This is 7th street actually and the north would be downward on this map as it's shown. When I went to here, I yelled for the boys, or looked for the bicycles or whatever I could find. I couldn't find anything, so I made my way all the way through this weeded patch, you got hills, ditches, culverts all the way to 7th street and then I crossed the bayou and I came all the way back through this weeded group area here, back to my vehicle and just continued to search from there.

FOGLEMAN: Alright, and then where did you go sir?

RIDGE: (Pointing) Uh, I searched all into this area from this little street here, you'll come into this path and you'll walk around this way, and these paths are all connected. I searched all of these woods into this area. I searched this big wooded area here that, this is just a big thicket there are no paths really that go through it, you just have to dig your way through the vines. And then by the time I made my way back to my vehicle again, it was determined that I went and got my 3 wheeler and actually did some searching on 3 wheeler.

FOGLEMAN: Alright, when you were out searching that area were there other people searching too?

RIDGE: Yes (talking over each other)

FOGLEMAN: Approximately how many people did you see searching?

RIDGE: I saw probably 15 people. 

FOGLEMAN: Alright, in that area?

RIDGE: Yes sir.

FOGLEMAN: Okay, and after you got your 3 wheeler where did you go?

RIDGE: (Pointing) Okay, when I got my 3 wheeler I parked on Wal-Mart parking lot which is about another mile to the west if you go down the expressway and just a little bit to the south of the expressway. I got on the 3 wheeler I searched all the way around this field and to the back of this lot. Of course this is about a 200 acre field and I came all the way through there. I took my 3 wheeler and came back through this area again, came back out on this street. Then I went on the east side of this ditch and started hunting the edge and looking the edges of all of these fields.

FOGLEMAN: Now, uh, at some point later on did you receive some kind of word that you needed to go, back to the area of Robin Hood?

RIDGE: Yes.

FOGLEMAN: Alright, and what did you do after you got that word?

RIDGE: Okay, that's when I immediately left from Airport Road, which is a good 3 miles away from that scene actually, and by the time I got there is was about 1:30 and the bodies were discovered shortly after I arrived.

FOGLEMAN: Alright, now after you arrived what did you do?

RIDGE: I talked with Mike Allen who explained how he had been in the ditch attempting to retrieve some of the clothing items. Those items being floated, floating in the water. I think there were shoes and a hat and he explained to me how upon searching for that body he had found or searching for those clothes, going to those clothes he had found a body.

FOGLEMAN: Alright, now after receiving that information what did you do?

RIDGE: I actually went into the ditch and (FOGLEMAN interrupts)

FOGLEMAN: Was anything done to secure the scene?

RIDGE: Yes, we started having people, anybody that was there, of course when I got there, there was Mike Allen and Lt. Hester and Inspector Gitchell was there somewhere but I'm not exactly sure where he was. I was focusing on what was going on in the ditch and myself and Mike Allen actually went into the ditch.

FOGLEMAN: Okay well, what did you do to secure the scene at that point?

RIDGE: Uh tape, this crime scene tape was put out, a path was secured coming from outside of the woods into the crime scene so that we could come in in a unique ways in order that if there was evidence there that we had missed then we would not have destroyed that on the original paths.

FOGLEMAN: You made a new path?

RIDGE: Yes sir.

FOGLEMAN: Okay, you can retake the stand officer.

FOGLEMAN: Alright, you mentioned that you, well first let me show you State's Exhibits 14, 15 and 16 and ask if you can identify these?

STIDHAM: Your honor may council approach the bench?

THE COURT: Sure

(Return to open court)

FOGLEMAN: Can you identify those?

RIDGE: Yes sir. These are aerial photographs of the area.

FOGLEMAN: Do those photographs fairly and accurately portray the scene as it appeared to you that day?

RIDGE: Yes sir.

FOGLEMAN: Alright. Your honor we would offer State's Exhibits 14, 15 and 16.

THE COURT: Alright, they may be received subject to the previous ruling of the court.

FOGLEMAN: Your Honor may Detective RIDGE step down and exhibit these photographs to the jury and explain.

THE COURT: Yes he may.

RIDGE:( Exhibiting to jury) Ladies and gentleman this is a aerial photograph of the area known as Robin Hood Hills. This is Mayfair apartments, that would be these apartments that are here. This end of this street is west McCauley and here is the pipe that again is right here.

FOGLEMAN: Which exhibit number are you referring to?

RIDGE: This is exhibit 14. 

FOGLEMAN: Okay

RIDGE: Also on this picture again here's the pipe and this is the bayou, I think it's been noted as 10 Mile Bayou. You can see the path coming through the woods. This comes into the back of the Blue Beacon which is this establishment here, and you can see the path also here in this picture. There's a path here that breaks off an comes across a hill that you can barely see in this picture also. The a bodies of the victims were found in this area in this wooded patch. This area here is the a waste water from the Blue Beacon where it has to be treated before it can be put into the sewer systems and that's also this pond as you can see here. The next picture which is Exhibit 15 is just a higher picture, this is if you're in the west looking down at the scene, Memphis would be here to the east from this area. So we're looking sort of in a southeasterly direction. These are Mayfair apartments, this is McCauley, uh, the pipe goes across right here and this is the area where the bodies were found, the Blue Beacon, 76th Truck Stop, 7th Street. Uh, 14th street would be this row houses that's behind this green, grassy area. There would be East Junior High School and Weaver Elementary. This is another higher picture. This is 7th street. 7th street runs almost due north and south in the picture, so we're looking just a little bit north and east. Memphis would be here to the right. Again here is East Junior High School, Weaver Elementary. This is 14th Street. This is Goodwin. This is west McCauley. This area here is the patch of woods known as Robin Hood Hills. This small establishment here is the Blue Beacon, the 76th Truck Stop and Mayfair apartments.

FOGLEMAN: Alright, you can retake the stand officer. Exhibit to the jury your honor?

THE COURT: Yes, you may.

FOGLEMAN: Now Detective RIDGE after you got there, I believe earlier you did say that you'd gotten into the water is that right?

RIDGE: Yes sir.

FOGLEMAN: Alright after you'd got in the water what did you do?

RIDGE: I got into the water north of the bodies, north of the victim that had been located, who was, we'd discovered was Michael Moore, and I proceeded to work my way through the water through the ditch, and being careful not to destroy any evidence, I was searching the bottom of the ditch as I made my way to the body. I found some clothing items (FOGLEMAN interrupts)

FOGLEMAN: Okay when you say you were searching the bottom of the ditch what do you mean?

RIDGE: Okay. Obviously you can't see into this muddy water, so, the best way to describe it is I actually do it from the water level, I was raking my hands from one bank of the water to where it came out on the other side along the bottom all the way.

FOGLEMAN: Okay.

RIDGE: And that's what I did until I made my way to that body.

FOGLEMAN: Okay. And then what? After you made your way to Michael Moore what did you do?

RIDGE: We took the body of Michael Moore from the water.

FOGLEMAN: Alright, and then what did you do?

RIDGE: I continued to search. We placed that body (FOGLEMAN interrupts)

FOGLEMAN: In the same manner?

RIDGE: Yes, I did. I'm the one that actually stayed in that ditch the entire time and from start to finish until all of the bodies were found, to as far as I could go in that ditch and reach the bottom that's the way I searched it.

FOGLEMAN: About how many feet would you say that you went in that manner?

RIDGE: Probably about 45 feet.

FOGLEMAN: Okay, and uh, in doing that did you find anything besides Michael Moore, Stevie Branch and Chris Byers?

RIDGE: The clothing of the victims.

FOGLEMAN: Were the clothing floating in the water or how did you find them?

RIDGE: No sir, there were, the best description is they were actually pushed into the mud in the bottom of the creek. Some of the tennis shoes and a hat were actually floating in the water, but there were some pants and a shirt that were actually stuck in the mud in the bottom of the ditch.

FOGLEMAN: I want to show you State's Exhibit 8 and ask you if you can identify that?

RIDGE: This is a blue and yellow Cub Scout cap.

FOGLEMAN: First of all, can you identify it?

RIDGE: Yes sir.

FOGLEMAN: How can you identify it?

RIDGE: It has my initials, and number and the date that I recovered it.

FOGLEMAN: And where did you recover that item?

RIDGE: It was floating in the water.

FOGLEMAN: Your Honor we would offer State's Exhibit 8.

STIDHAM: No objection, Your Honor

THE COURT: Alright, it may be received without objection.

FOGLEMAN: Would you open the bag?

(RIDGE opening bag)

FOGLEMAN: Is State's Exhibit 8 the Cub Scout cap that you recovered from the water there?

RIDGE: Yes sir.

FOGLEMAN: You can return it to the sack.

FOGLEMAN: I'm going to show you what I've marked for identification purposes as State's Exhibits 43, 44 and 45 and ask if you can identify those?

RIDGE: Yes sir I can.

FOGLEMAN: Alright, and how can you identify those?

RIDGE: They have my initials, and number and date.

FOGLEMAN: Each one of them?

RIDGE: Yes sir.

FOGLEMAN: And where did you recover those items?

RIDGE: They were in the ditch.

FOGLEMAN: In relation to where Michael and Stevie and Chris were, where did you find them?

RIDGE: Near Michael.

FOGLEMAN: Okay, Your Honor we would offer State's Exhibits 44, 45 and 43

STIDHAM: No objection Your Honor.

THE COURT: They may be received without objection.

FOGLEMAN: And in State's Exhibit 45, what is in the sack?

RIDGE: (Opening sack) A pair of blue pants.

FOGLEMAN: And in 44?

RIDGE: (Opening sack) A white polka dot shirt.

FOGLEMAN: Alright, and in State's Exhibit 43?

RIDGE: (Opening sack) A blue Boy Scout shirt.

FOGLEMAN: I want to hand you where I've marked for identification purposes as State's Exhibit 46A and 46B and ask if you can identify those?

RIDGE: Yes sir I can.

FOGLEMAN: And how can you identify them?

RIDGE: They have my initials and date on them.

FOGLEMAN: Where did you recover those items?

RIDGE: In the water.

FOGLEMAN: Uh, in the water where?

RIDGE: Floating in the water in the ditch where Michael Moore was found.

FOGLEMAN: Your honor we would offer State's Exhibits 46A and 46B

STIDHAM: Your honor I just don't know what it is

FOGLEMAN: What are they?

RIDGE: Each one is one white tennis shoe.

STIDHAM: No objection Your Honor

THE COURT: Alright, they may be received without objection

FOGLEMAN: At this time I want to show you what's been marked for identification purposes as State's Exhibits 47A and 47B and ask if you can identify those?

RIDGE: Yes sir I can.

FOGLEMAN: And again, how can you identify those?

RIDGE: They have my initials and date on them.

FOGLEMAN: Where did you recover those items?

RIDGE: In the water near Michael Moore.

FOGLEMAN: And what are they?

RIDGE: One is a black tennis shoe and the other one is a black tennis shoe.

FOGLEMAN: Is it just black?

RIDGE: With purple interior, both of these.

FOGLEMAN: We would offer 47A and 47B

STIDHAM: No objection

THE COURT: Alright they may be received without objection.

FOGLEMAN: I want to show you what's been marked for identification purposes as State's Exhibits 48, 49 and 50 and ask if you can identify those?

RIDGE: (opening bag) Yes sir I can.

FOGLEMAN: And how can you identify it?

RIDGE: Each sack has my initials, and number and the date

FOGLEMAN: Alright, and where did you recover those items?

RIDGE: In the water, near the body of Michael Moore.

FOGLEMAN: What are they?

RIDGE: A pair of blue jeans, with a blue wallet, a striped shirt and one pair of child's underwear.

FOGLEMAN: Your Honor we would offer 48, 49 and 50

STIDHAM: No objection

THE COURT: Alright, they may be received.

FOGLEMAN: I want to show you what's been marked for identification purposes as State's Exhibits 51A and 51B and 52 and ask if you can identify those?

RIDGE: Yes sir I can.

FOGLEMAN: And how can you identify those?

RIDGE: They have my initials and the date

FOGLEMAN: And where did you recover those items?

RIDGE: In the water, near the body of Michael Moore.

FOGLEMAN: And what are they?

RIDGE: A black tennis shoe, a black tennis shoe with a sock and a pair of blue jeans.

FOGLEMAN: Your Honor we would offer 51A, 51B and 52

STIDHAM: No objection

THE COURT: Alright, they may be received

FOGLEMAN: When you found the a pants, how were they?

RIDGE: Okay. The best memory I have, 2 of the pair of pants were turned inside out, still buttoned. I believe they were still zipped and one of the pair was right side out.

FOGLEMAN: And did you leave them in that condition when you bagged them?

RIDGE: Yes sir.

FOGLEMAN: I want to show you 3 photographs, marked for identification purposes as State's Exhibits 25, 29 and 30 and ask if you can identify those photographs?

RIDGE: Yes sir I can.

FOGLEMAN: Do those photographs fairly and accurately portray the scene as it appeared to you that day, on May the 6?

RIDGE: Yes sir.

FOGLEMAN: Your honor we would offer State's Exhibits 25, 29 and 30

THE COURT: Alright, they may be received subject to the previous orders of the court.

FOGLEMAN: Your Honor may detective RIDGE step down and exhibit to the jury and explain?

THE COURT: Yes he may.

FOGLEMAN: And detective RIDGE to the best you can, keep in mind that some of the jurors have trouble seeing.

RIDGE: This is a enlarged photograph of the crime scene--

FOGLEMAN: Which exhibit number is that?

RIDGE: (Exhibiting picture to jury) Exhibit 25. Alright, we're in the north, we're looking in a southerly direction, even a little bit to the southeast. Okay, this is the ditch where the bodies were found. Michael Moore was found in this area right here at the bottom of the screen. Steve Branch was found just behind where these trees are in this stream and Christopher Byers was found just below that body right here in that same stream.

FOGLEMAN: Detective RIDGE let me interrupt you just a minute, now when Michael Moore, which way was his head and which way were his feet?

RIDGE: Okay, Michael Moore's head was in a northerly direction and his feet were to the south in the stream.

FOGLEMAN: Okay, so his head would have been upstream or downstream?

RIDGE: Upstream

FOGLEMAN: Alright, and on Stevie and Chris, uh, how were they?

RIDGE: Their feet were northbound or upstream and their head was downstream.

FOGLEMAN: Okay, alright go ahead.

RIDGE: Okay, uh, this mark on the tree, now when we say that's an accurate description of where I found it, this mark was put there as a marker for measurements being taken on the crime scene. Whether or not you can see it or not, there's also a mark on one of these trees which is the same thing but, the rest of the crime scene appeared to be similar to that except this black plastic was not there when we first got there. This black plastic was used to uh, cover the bodies after we removed them from the water.( Exhibiting new picture to jury) Exhibit 29 again this is the ditch where the bodies were found. We're looking again towards the south, and the body of Steve Branch was found in this area. The body of Christopher Byers was found right here and this is me here in the background, after we had removed the bodies we were searching for anything that may have been missed during the initial search going through there and we pumped all of the water out. This is a suction hose where we were pumping the water out of the stream.

FOGLEMAN: Alright, let me ask you a question about that one while you've got it. You say you pumped all the water out?

RIDGE: All that we could get out of it.

FOGLEMAN: Alright, and then after you pumped all of the water out what did you do in looking for evidence?

RIDGE: Again we visually searched for everything. We got a metal detector. We searched everything that was there trying to find anything that may have been a piece of evidence.

FOGLEMAN: Anything of significance found?

RIDGE: No, sir

FOGLEMAN: Alright. Were efforts also made to do some searching in the 10 Mile Bayou?

RIDGE: Yes, sir

FOGLEMAN: What was that done with?

RIDGE: It was quite a bit deeper area it would've, I walked through this ditch all the way out into 10 Mile Bayou, when it got up to my neck I had to turn and come back out but, it was up to my neck in the bayou and uh, we took a boat and got into the Bayou itself and drug a large magnet to pick up any metal items that may've been in the bayou.

FOGLEMAN: Okay go ahead.

RIDGE: Okay also the Bayou was searched with a Grappling Hook and the bicycles of the victims were found in the bayou (Exhibiting another picture to the jury) and this is another photograph of preparing, attempting to pump the water out of the ditch. This is the ditch. We're looking in a southerly direction. The body of Michael Moore was found here. The body of Steve Branch behind these trees in the ditch here. And the body of Christopher Byers was found in the ditch just below that.

FOGLEMAN: Before you retake the stand let me put Exhibit --

RIDGE: This here is Exhibit 30

FOGLEMAN: 13 back up here and if you could take my red pen, and if you could put, let me get a better marker that'll do better and put a mark on there where Michael was found, and where Stevie and Chris were found.

RIDGE: (Marking Exhibit 13) Michael Moore was found here in this area. Stevie Branch was found here, and Christopher Byers, just below him here.

FOGLEMAN: Alright, you can retake the stand.

(RIDGE retaking the stand)

FOGLEMAN: I want to show you what's marked for identification purposes as State's Exhibits 18 and 19 and ask if you can identify those photographs.

RIDGE: Yes sir I can.

FOGLEMAN: Alight, and do those photographs fairly and accurately portray the scene as it appeared to you that day?

RIDGE: Yes sir.

FOGLEMAN: Alright and Your honor we would offer 18 and 19.

THE COURT: Alright, they may be received subject to the previous ruling of the court.

FOGLEMAN: Then I want to show you what has been marked as State's Exhibit's 32, 38 and 42 and ask of you can identify those photographs.

RIDGE: Yes sir I can.

FOGLEMAN: And do those photographs fairly and accurately portray the scene as it appeared to you?

RIDGE: Yes sir.

FOGLEMAN: Your Honor we would offer State's Exhibits 32, 38 and 42.

THE COURT: Alright, they may be received

FOGLEMAN: Your honor may Detective RIDGE again step down and exhibit these photographs?

THE COURT: Yes.

RIDGE: (RIDGE exhibiting photos to the jury) Okay this is me, removing one of the shoes from the water. In the background here you can see that there's trash floating in the stream here. Particularly there's a stick right here that would it be carved or whatever. I don't know it's just a stick that we found floating in the water near the crime scene. Okay and this picture basically is taken in this area here from the north looking to the south. And that is Exhibit 19. Exhibit number 18 is some of the items floating in the water that were found. There are a couple of sticks here. We've got a white tennis shoe, a black tennis shoe, a boy scout cap. I believe this is a pair of child's underwear. And there's another shoe here and this is the way these items were found in the water. And again that is the portion of the bayou just below, there's some limbs that came out into the ditch just below Michael Moore's body. Okay, this is a picture of the, we have 2 sticks here, and on the end of one of those sticks is a uh, turned out to be a white shirt. As I was approaching the body of Michael Moore this stick actually came dislodged from the bottom of the stream and up came with it the shirt that looked like it had been jobbed down in the mud in the bottom of the stream.

FOGLEMAN: What to do you mean when you say it became dislodged? What happened? What did you see when you first walked?

RIDGE: Okay, when I first walked the stick was sticking up in the mud.

FOGLEMAN: You could see it?

RIDGE: Yes.

FOGLEMAN: Alright.

RIDGE: And as I'm going to the body it became dislodged, and when it came floating up the shirt was wrapped around the end of the stick.

FOGLEMAN: Okay.

RIDGE: Okay and this is me---

FOGLEMAN: Refer to the Exhibit number

RIDGE: Excuse me, that is Exhibit 42 and Exhibit number 38 is me removing that shirt from that stick that came floating up. Uh, the stream in this area, there's little or no trash as far as leaves and limbs or anything. It's just those items that were disturbed when I went into this creek and that stick was one of those items that was disturbed.

FOGLEMAN: Alright, how about further down the stream?

RIDGE: There, as in this picture, this stick with the carvings on it, which is Exhibit 32, you can see there's trash all in the stream at this particular area. This is upstream, which is near the body of Michael Moore, that is Exhibit 38. Exhibit 32 is downstream from that area, about in this area.

FOGLEMAN: What movement, if any, of the water was there?

RIDGE: Very little movement. It was just a very slow water.

FOGLEMAN: Alright you can retake the stand. I want to show you what I've got marked for identification purposes as State's Exhibit 53 and ask if you can identify that?

RIDGE: (RIDGE opening bag) Yes sir, I can identify this.

FOGLEMAN: Alright, and how can you identify it?

RIDGE: It was packaged and labeled by me as Evidence number E-17, and it was the stick that was found floating in the water below Michael Moore.

FOGLEMAN: Alright is that the stick that's in your hand and State's Exhibit 32?

RIDGE: Yes sir, it is.

FOGLEMAN: Alright your Honor we would offer State's Exhibit 53.

STIDHAM: No objection Your Honor.

THE COURT: Alright, it may be received without objection.

FOGLEMAN: I want to show you what has been marked for identification purposes as State's Exhibits 54 and 55 and ask if you can identify each.

RIDGE: (RIDGE opening bag) To 55 yes sir, I can.

FOGLEMAN: And how can you identify it?

RIDGE: This is packaged in a package and labeled by me and dated by me.

FOGLEMAN: And where did you recover these?

RIDGE: It was originally in the ditch near Michael Moore.

(RIDGE putting 55 back in the bag)

(RIDGE taking 54 out of the bag)

RIDGE: Yes sir, I can identify this one also.

FOGLEMAN: Alright, and how can you identify it?

RIDGE: It's one of those sticks that was floating in the water near Michael Moore.

FOGLEMAN: Alright. Now were one of these sticks the one that had the clothes?

RIDGE: Yes sir, I believe it was this one but, I can't say for sure which one.

FOGLEMAN: When you say this one, which exhibit number are you referring to?

RIDGE: This would have been Exhibit 54.

Fugleman: Your honor, we would offer State's Exhibits 54 and 55.

STIDHAM: No objection Your Honor.

THE COURT: Alright, they may be received without objection.

FOGLEMAN: Detective RIDGE at this time I want to hand you what's been marked for identification purposes as State's Exhibits 33, 34, 37A, 40, and 41 and ask if you can identify those?

RIDGE: Yes sir, I can.

FOGLEMAN: Alright, how can you identify those?

RIDGE: These are photographs of the crime scene, removing of the clothing items, and the body of Michael Moore.

FOGLEMAN: Do those photos fairly and accurately portray the scene as it appeared to you that day?

RIDGE: Yes sir.

FOGLEMAN: Your Honor, we would offer State's Exhibits 33, 34, 37A, 40, and 41.

THE COURT: Alright, they may be received.

FOGLEMAN: Your Honor, may Detective RIDGE step down again and exhibit to the jury?

THE COURT: Yes.

RIDGE: (exhibiting) Okay, this is a Polaroid photograph of, this is --

FOGLEMAN: Don't forget the exhibit number.

RIDGE: Sergeant Allen. This is Exhibit Number 33. This is Sergeant Allen, and this is me. As I have searched, I came across this pair of pants that was being removed from the water by me prior to taking the body from the water. And that is the body of Michael Moore, that we're removing from the body, from the water at that point. This is me. Uh, these are clothing items, including shoes that were being taken from the water which was just below the body of Michael Moore. This is Exhibit 34.

FOGLEMAN: Some of the jurors down here are going to have trouble seeing, if you could kinda explain and maybe move up and down.

RIDGE: Okay. This one is a picture of me. And it's me removing the Cub Scout cap from the water, which was located again, below the body of Michael Moore. This is Exhibit 37A.

FOGLEMAN: When you say below the body, What do you mean?

RIDGE: Downstream.

FOGLEMAN: Okay.

RIDGE: This is Exhibit 40, which is me removing a pair of pants from the water, which again were found below the body, downstream from Michael Moore. This is also a picture of me, Exhibit 41, is removing a shoe from the water, which again is downstream from the body of Michael Moore. Again in this picture you can see that there's a lot of trash here in the water.

FOGLEMAN: I want to show you what has been marked for identification purposes as State's Exhibits 26, 27, 37B and 23 and ask if you can identify these?

RIDGE: Yes sir, I can.

FOGLEMAN: I also want to show you what has been marked for identification purposes as State's 35, 36 and 39 and ask if you can identify those photographs?

RIDGE: Yes sir, I can.

FOGLEMAN: Do those photographs fairly and accurately portray the scene as it appeared to you? 

RIDGE: Yes sir.

FOGLEMAN: Alright. Your Honor, we would offer State's Exhibits 27, 26, 37B, 35, 23, 36 and 39.

THE COURT: And all these are photographs that we've reviewed in the back?

FOGLEMAN: Yes, we have.

THE COURT: And I've made my rulings on them. Alright they may be received, subject to those rulings.

FOGLEMAN: Detective RIDGE will you step down here and starting with Exhibits 39, 36 and 35, if you could explain to the jury.

RIDGE: Exhibit 39 which is myself and Detective Sergeant Allen removing the body of Michael Moore from the water. 

FOGLEMAN: And which exhibit is that?

RIDGE: Exhibit 39. Exhibit 36 is myself, removing the body of Steve Branch from the water. Exhibit 35 is myself removing the body of Christopher Byers from the ditch.

FOGLEMAN: Alright, Detective RIDGE I want to show you State's Exhibits 27 and 37B and ask you to describe those photographs.

RIDGE: Yes sir, Exhibit 27 is the bank on the east side from where the body of Michael Moore was located, this area right here between this slanted line and this tree is like a shelf, an area that is not as extremely sloped as the rest of it. You can see where it appears to be slicked off where something has scooted across the bank or cleaned of debris or whatever. That is Exhibit 27.

FOGLEMAN: Alright let me ask you this. In relation to the surrounding area, how did it compare in the amount of leaves that were on the --

RIDGE: It looked as though it had been cleaned of leaves and debris. Okay this is that same shelf that's on the east bank. This is the area where it looks like it's been slicked off, or cleaned off. The grass is actually embedded in the mud or something. I don't know what the reason would be other than if you'd raked your hand across that portion and the grass would be actually embedded in the mud at that location. 

FOGLEMAN: (mumbles) Exhibit 23.

RIDGE: Yes sir. Again, this is where, this is the body of Michael Moore. This portion of the bank is that shelf on the east side where his body was located. I'm pointing out the injuries, as those injuries are being documented by other officers, that he had injuries to his head. Again you can see this muddy bank where it appears that something that has just raked across it.

FOGLEMAN: And, uh, 26.

RIDGE: Okay, this again is the body of Michael Moore and this bank and it shows in more detail, you can actually see mud over the top of this grass where it has been raked through the mud. This is Exhibit 26.

FOGLEMAN: You may retake the stand.

(RIDGE retaking stand)

FOGLEMAN: I want to show you what's been marked for identification purposes as State's Exhibits 17, 20, 22 and 24 and ask if you can identify these photographs?

RIDGE: Yes sir, I can.

FOGLEMAN: Do those photographs fairly and accurately portray the scene as it appeared to you that day?

RIDGE: Yes sir.

FOGLEMAN: Your Honor we would offer State's Exhibits 24, 22, 20 and 17.

THE COURT: Alright, they may be received subject to the previous ruling of the court.

FOGLEMAN: Your Honor, may Detective RIDGE again exhibit to the jury?

THE COURT: Yes.

FOGLEMAN: This is 17.

RIDGE: This is Exhibit 22 which is the body of Michael Moore after removing him from the the water. That's the way he was found.

FOGLEMAN: Now on the, does this also show the bank that you've talked about about?

RIDGE: Yes sir, this is the bank. This is the body of Steve Branch, and it's where he has been removed from the water by me. Steve Branch is the young man that had the injuries to his face.

FOGLEMAN: Was it a particular part of his face?

RIDGE: It was the left side of the chin area. This again is me, this is Exhibit, State's Exhibit 20. Exhibit 17 was the body of Steve Branch as it was being laid on the bank. This is Exhibit 20 which is Steve Branch as he was being removed from the ditch be me. State's Exhibit 24 is the body of Christopher Byers.

FOGLEMAN: You can retake the stand, Detective RIDGE.

(RIDGE retaking the stand)

FOGLEMAN: And what kind of injuries did Chris Byers have, that you observed?

RIDGE: It looked as though his penis had been removed, and there were stab marks all over the area around his penis.

FOGLEMAN: I want to show you State's Exhibit 28 and ask if you can identify that?

RIDGE: Yes sir, I can.

FOGLEMAN: Does that photograph fairly and accurately portray that area as it appeared to you that day?

RIDGE: Yes sir.

FOGLEMAN: Your Honor, I think this was in the ones that I gave you but let me make sure.

(INAUDIBLE DISCUSSION)

FOGLEMAN: Your Honor we would offer State's Exhibit 28.

THE COURT: Was that one of them we'd reviewed?

STIDHAM: Yes. Yes, that's correct.

THE COURT: I don't remember whether there was an objection made.

STIDHAM: No sir.

THE COURT: All right it may be received without objection.

FOGLEMAN: If you could again step down for that last picture.

RIDGE: This is Exhibit 28. It's a picture of the creek. The crime scene from the south to the north and just a little bit east. This is the bottom of the ditch.

FOGLEMAN: Is that after it's been pumped out?

RIDGE: Yes sir, it is.

FOGLEMAN: Alright and what, about what was the level of the water before it was pumped out?

RIDGE: It would've been just above my knee.

FOGLEMAN: Alright. Well on the picture about how far would it have gone up on you?

RIDGE: On this picture it would have been right here about this line.

FOGLEMAN: Okay, do you have a pen you can make a mark with on that?

RIDGE: Yes I can. I marked the picture right here. Look at it.

FOGLEMAN: Alright now, is that flattened area there, was anything on that area? 

RIDGE: Yes sir there was some stuff there but it wasn't as the rest of the surrounding woods, there wasn't as much stuff there.

FOGLEMAN: Alright, where was that flattened area in relation to where Stevie and Chris were found?

RIDGE: It was just to the west and a little bit to the north from where their bodies were found. 

FOGLEMAN: Okay. And from that flattened area what is the terrain up to the top of the bank?

RIDGE: It, from that flattened area then it goes steep up to the top of the bank.

FOGLEMAN: Now if you can you show the jury where Exhibit 28 is on the diagram.

RIDGE: (indicating) Okay, this is denoting a tree that is, this tree, this shelf area here is what's being denoted behind this tree here. And of course here is the creek, as the second bank or the line that I've marked here. That's what we call the second bank. That's where the water level normally runs.

(mumbling in background)

FOGLEMAN: Does the diagram reflect certain elevations?

RIDGE: Yes sir, they do.

FOGLEMAN: If you could point out the area shown on there and the elevations.

RIDGE: Okay, the top of the bank which would have been level with the surrounding terrain at the crime scene, is an elevation of 215.0 feet above the mean sea level which is the average sea level for a particular day. The shelf elevation which is 210 foot, that means that approximately 5 foot below the elevation of the top bank would be this shelf area.

FOGLEMAN: Alright, is this the area that we talked about being slicked off?

RIDGE: Yes sir.

FOGLEMAN: Okay, then go ahead.

RIDGE: Okay the flow line elevation which is the actual bottom of the ditch, is 207.5 feet. Which is 7 and a half feet below the top of the bank, or of the mean elevation, 215 feet. The low bank elevation which this is basically a ditch within a ditch, this whole white area that you see would be a ditch if there was a large amount of water coming through the ditch. Under normal flow conditions this is the ditch within that ditch and that is the bank that actually goes a sharp cut down to the bottom of that ditch.

FOGLEMAN: Okay, you can retake the stand.

(RIDGE retaking the stand)

FOGLEMAN: Detective RIDGE when you're standing, when you were in the creek or ditch, whatever you want to call it, where Mike and Stevie and Chris were found, what can you see up on top?

RIDGE: You can't hardly see anything. The bank is up here, it's so steep in places that you're going to have to have somebody within 6 foot of that edge before you would even know somebody was there.

FOGLEMAN: Okay. I don't have any further questions at this time your Honor.

STIDHAM: Your Honor, may we consider a short recess?

THE COURT: Alright. Alright, ladies and gentlemen we're going to take a about a 10 minute recess with the usual admonition not to discuss the case with anyone.

RECESS

(Return to open court)

FOGLEMAN: Your Honor, I did have a couple more questions.

THE COURT: Alright, go ahead.

FOGLEMAN: Detective RIDGE in, when the, when Michael and Stevie and Chris were found what were the, their positions in the water?

RIDGE: Okay Michael Moore was laying on his left side facing Memphis.

FOGLEMAN: Okay.

RIDGE: Okay Steve Branch was laying face down, his face, chest and knees actually touching the ground on the bottom of the ditch. And Christopher Byers was in the same position, face down.

FOGLEMAN: Alright. I don't have any further questions.

CROSS EXAMINATION

STIDHAM: Officer RIDGE, how many folks were out there the day the bodies were recovered? Could you name the folks that were out there?

RIDGE: Name each and every person? No sir.

STIDHAM: How many people would you estimate were there?

RIDGE: During the search, or during the period of time when the body was, bodies were actually found?

STIDHAM: I assume that there were folks that were out there searching and then the bodies were discovered. How many were there at the actual site where the bodies were recovered, when that occurred?

RIDGE: Okay, when I got there I remember seeing Detective Sergeant Allen. Detective Lieutenant Hester, and Detective Burch.

STIDHAM: Were there also members of the Crittenden County Search and Rescue team present?

RIDGE: At the actual scene?

STIDHAM: Uh hmm (yes)

RIDGE: I didn't see any, no.

STIDHAM: Did they come up later after the bodies were recovered?

RIDGE: I don't think anybody came up after that.

STIDHAM: Isn't it true that the city sent some employees out to help you pump the water from the stream?

RIDGE: Yes sir.

STIDHAM: So they were present at the --

RIDGE: After the bodies had been removed, yes sir.

STIDHAM: Okay. May I approach the witness your Honor?

THE COURT: Yes. 

STIDHAM: Officer RIDGE if you could step down, could you point to the service road just off the interstate?

RIDGE: This is the south service road of Interstate 40 & 55.

STIDHAM: Okay. And that service road is how the patrons of the Blue Beacon Truck Wash get in and out, is that correct?

RIDGE: Patrons, yes sir.

STIDHAM: Okay. How far would you estimate, I know you can't give me an approximate, I mean an exact figure, but how far would you estimate from where the bodies were recovered here to the service road?

RIDGE: Okay, if one inch is forty foot, if I had a ruler I could tell you.

STIDHAM: Just give me your best estimate.

RIDGE: Okay. Probably some 450 feet. That's just an estimate at this point.

STIDHAM: 450 feet or 450 yards?

RIDGE: I would say feet, yes sir.

STIDHAM: Okay. Could you hear the traffic on the Interstate 40 and 55 as you were at the crime scene that day?

RIDGE: Yes sir.

STIDHAM: Could you see the traffic going by from the interstate?

RIDGE: If you were up on the high bank, yes sir.

STIDHAM: So if you were down in the creek bottom where the water was, you wouldn't have been able to see the interstate?

RIDGE: You may have gotten glimpses if they were just the right point looking up through the ditch but probably it would've been very difficult to see any traffic on the expressway.

STIDHAM: How dense was the forest at that time of the year?

RIDGE: It was May, that's a good growing time in our region the new leaves are really beginning to come out at that point.

STIDHAM: Could you see the truck wash from where the bodies were recovered, could you see the Blue Beacon Truck Wash?

RIDGE: It would've been difficult to make it out if it's not moving but because of the color of the Blue Beacon you could probably make out that there's something there.

STIDHAM: Thank you, no further questions.

RIDGE: Yes sir.

(Redirect by FOGLEMAN)

FOGLEMAN: Detective RIDGE, did ya'll conduct a little experiment where somebody got down in the ditch and yelled?

RIDGE: I understand it took place yes sir.

FOGLEMAN: You didn't participate in that?

RIDGE: No sir, I did not.

(Re-Cross by STIDHAM)

STIDHAM: I have another question, your Honor.

THE COURT: Go ahead.

STIDHAM: May I approach the witness?

THE COURT: Alright.

STIDHAM: Looking at the elevations Officer RIDGE...

RIDGE: Yes sir.

STIDHAM: This side of the creek, or the stream as it said on the diagram, what direction is that? 

RIDGE: This would be north. That direction would be east.

STIDHAM: Okay. And so the side of the stream where the truck wash is and the oxidation pond, would be the west side?

RIDGE: Yes sir, west.

STIDHAM: Also west and...

RIDGE: North.

STIDHAM: Northwest?

RIDGE: Yes sir. 

STIDHAM: Um, which bank, if you're standing at the reference tree right there where the three trees are grown together, which bank on the stream is higher? The east bank or the west bank?

RIDGE: Okay, you pointed at this tree actually as being the three trees, that's the single tree that's at the top of the high bank. This is where the three trees are, so -- 

STIDHAM: Okay.

RIDGE: Which position would you rather -- 

STIDHAM: Let's go from this reference tree right here.

RIDGE: Yes sir.

STIDHAM: If you're standing there beside that tree and you look across to the east side of the stream, is the bank on the east side higher? Or where you're standing higher?

RIDGE: Well sir, I don't understand exactly what you're saying actually. Now the high bank is pointing at this high bank which would be the level of the, the normal level of the ground. And it's gonna be the same on both sides, the normal level. Alright there is a shelf on the east bank and you would be looking at the, you're at this high bank on the west side, you're looking to the east, you're looking at a shelf that's low.

STIDHAM: Well, I understand there's several different levels, because --

RIDGE: Yes sir.

STIDHAM: -- the diagram shows the, um the flow level basin is 207.5. And the shelf elevation is 210. And then the high bank elevation, which I would assume would be the highest point on this side of the stream is 215. Is that correct?

RIDGE: No Sir. It's not the highest point. That's the way the engineer calls the high bank is the level of ground that's on both sides of that point. It's the level ground. It's not the heaps of dirt that were used in order to drudge that ditch out or clean that ditch out at some time.

STIDHAM: Your Honor, I'd like to reserve the right to recall this witness to testify about some photographs of the crime scene at a later point.

THE COURT: Be fine. Anything else?

FOGLEMAN: Not of this witness your Honor. Not at this time. 

THE COURT: I'm gonna let him be free to go to return to --

FOGLEMAN: No sir. He needs to come back tomorrow. Because we're going to be recalling him. 




January 27, 1994

FOGLEMAN: For the record, you’re the same Detective Ridge whose previously testified?

RIDGE: Yes sir.

FOGLEMAN: Detective Ridge, I want to, uh, direct your attention to June the 3rd, 1993. Did you participate in some questioning of the defendant, Jessie Misskelley, Jr.?

RIDGE: Yes sir, I did.

FOGLEMAN: And, uh, were you present when Detective Allen advised him of his rights?

RIDGE: Yes sir, I was present.

FOGLEMAN: I want to show what’s been introduced as State’s Exhibit 74 and ask if you recognize that.

RIDGE: Yes sir, I do.

FOGLEMAN: And did you sign that as a witness?

RIDGE: Yes sir, I did.

FOGLEMAN: Was any force, promises, threats or coercion used to get the defendant, uh, to sign the form, initial the rights or to make any statements?

RIDGE: No sir.

FOGLEMAN: Uh, I also wanna show you what’s been introduced as State’s Exhibit 104 and ask if you recognize that.

RIDGE: It’s a subject description form.

UNIDENTIFIED WOMAN: For identification.

FOGLEMAN: Alright, for identification purposes. And is part of that form in your handwriting?

RIDGE: Yes sir.

FOGLEMAN: And what part is that?

RIDGE: The scars, marks and tattoos portion of the form.

FOGLEMAN: And where did you get that information?

RIDGE: From the defendant, Mr. Misskelley.

FOGLEMAN: Your Honor, at this time we would offer State’s Exhibit 104.

STIDHAM: Hasn’t this already been introduced?

FOGLEMAN: It was introduced for identification purposes.

STIDHAM: Oh…sorry. No, no objection your Honor.

THE COURT: Alright, it may be received without objection. You may exhibit to the jury.

FOGLEMAN: Before I continue on the questioning, I want to back up a minute. At the crime scene, Detective Ridge, were there—what efforts, if any, were made to keep the bystanders from seeing the, the victims and the injuries they suffered?

RIDGE: Okay, before the bodies were actually removed from the water, everybody that was not directly concerned with the case, the detectives assigned to that case, were moved away from the crime scene and tape was put up to keep them away.

FOGLEMAN: Alright. And then after, uh, Michael and Stevie and Chris were removed from the water, was anything done to keep any, uh, other people that were, non-police from, from seeing?

RIDGE: Yes sir, their bodies were covered with black plastic.

FOGLEMAN: Alright. Now back to June the 3rd, um, after Detective, uh, Durham, uh, talked to the defendant, did you have some conversations with the defendant?

RIDGE: Yes sir, I did.

FOGLEMAN: Alright, did somebody else have some, was, was, was somebody else with you? 

RIDGE: Yes sir.

FOGLEMAN: Alright, and who was that?

RIDGE: Inspector Gary Gitchell.

FOGLEMAN: Alright, and during this conversation that you and Inspector Gitchell had with the defendant, now was any force, promises, threats or coercion used to get him to make any statements to you?

RIDGE: No sir.

FOGLEMAN: Um, did the defendant during this time—about what time did this start, by the way?

RIDGE: Approximately 12:40, after I came back from lunch. 

FOGLEMAN: Alright, and during the time that, uh, you and Detective, uh, Gitchell were having this conversation with the defendant, did you do anything to preserve your conversation with him?

RIDGE: At a point, the tape recorder was—

FOGLEMAN: I’m talking about before the tape recorder.

RIDGE: I took some notes.

FOGLEMAN: Okay. Alright, and was there any reason why you weren’t tape recording immediately?

RIDGE: Uh, it wasn’t determined that he was a suspect at this point.

FOGLEMAN: Alright. And, what did you think he was?

RIDGE: Uh, a potential witness.

FOGLEMAN: As, as far as, what type, what type of witness.

RIDGE: A reluctant witness…

FOGLEMAN: Well, I didn’t mean…

RIDGE: …to the homicide or to activities of Damien Echols.

FOGLEMAN: Okay. Alright, and did he—what if anything did he tell you, uh, during this conversation before the tape recording, uh, in regard to anything he might know about the homicides?

RIDGE: Okay, he had told us that he had attended some satanic cult-type meetings, he was a member of a satanic cult-like group.

FOGLEMAN: What did he tell you about that?

RIDGE: Uh, that they had met in various parts of the state, uh, generally on a Wednesday, uh, generally late into the evenings, even into the night, uh, that boys along with girls would attend. There would be sessions of, uh, sex, uh, orgies as he called them, uh, that dogs and animals had been killed, and in fact those animals, portions them had been eaten by the members. He talked about some, uh, phone calls he had received, uh…

FOGLEMAN: From who?

RIDGE: From Jason Baldwin where he says he heard the voice of Damien Echols in the background.

FOGLEMAN: Alright, what did he tell you that, about those phone calls?

RIDGE: Okay there were three phone calls. One was in the day before the murders, he explained. One was the morning of the murders, he explained. One was the night after the murders that he explained.

FOGLEMAN: And in the, did he say, what did he say, uh, that you recall about the phone call the day before the murders?

RIDGE: Uh, something to the effect that they were going to go somewhere and get some girls the next day or something to that effect.

FOGLEMAN: Okay. Alright, do you have your notes there?

RIDGE: I can probably find them.

FOGLEMAN: Okay

RIDGE: Yes sir, I have them.

FOGLEMAN: Alright, and do you have notes related to that phone call the day or night before the murders? (pause) I’m looking at the first page.

RIDGE: I’m on page four.

FOGLEMAN: I’m looking at page one.

RIDGE: Okay, stated that he had received a call from Jason Baldwin the night before the murders.

FOGLEMAN: Okay, and what did he tell you?

RIDGE: Okay, at that time they were going to go out and get some boys and hurt them.

FOGLEMAN: Alright, and, and then what did he tell you, about Damien in the background?

RIDGE: Alright, stated he received a call from Jason, Damien, in the background, wanted him to go with them, said they planned something, heard Damien say that Jason ought to tell that they were going to get some girls or something.

FOGLEMAN: Alright, and what, then what did Jessie tell you?

RIDGE: Jessie said he knew what they were going to do.

FOGLEMAN: Alright, and did he say anything in this conversation about a briefcase? 

RIDGE: Yes sir, he did.

FOGLEMAN: Alright, what did he say about the briefcase? 

RIDGE: Okay, he said that the briefcase was something that showed up at these meetings that they would have. The briefcase contained a couple of guns, some marijuana, I believe some cocaine. And that there was a picture in that, in the briefcase, and that he saw pictures of the boys that were killed.

FOGLEMAN: Alright. Did he say anything about um, what um, Damien had, or any of the people had had in regard to, uh these boys?

RIDGE: Okay, he said that Damien had been stalking these boys, or watching them.

FOGLEMAN: Alright, how about the um, do you recall what if anything he said about the phone call that came the morning of the murder?

RIDGE: I'm not sure if it's in my notes or not, but he just, he referred to that he received a phone that morning, the morning of the murders and that they wanted him to go with them. 

FOGLEMAN: Alright. How about after dark, after the murders?

RIDGE: Yes sir. He said that he heard Damien in the background, and that he heard him say "We did it, we did it. What are we going to do now? What are we going to do if somebody saw us?" 

FOGLEMAN: Alright. Now during the course of these conversations, or this conversation with the, uh, defendant, um, was anything shown to the defendant?

RIDGE: Yes sir.

FOGLEMAN: Alright, and what was shown to him?

RIDGE: There was a picture that Inspector Gitchell showed him.

FOGLEMAN: Okay, and what was that a picture of?

RIDGE: One of the victims.

FOGLEMAN: I want to show you State's Exhibit 76 and ask if you can identify that?

RIDGE: That's the body of Christopher Byers.

FOGLEMAN: Alright. But the picture itself.

RIDGE: It's a Polaroid photograph.

FOGLEMAN: Is that the photograph that Inspector Gitchell, or one like it – 

RIDGE: Yes sir.

FOGLEMAN: -- showed him. 

FOGLEMAN: Your Honor, we would offer State's Exhibit 76.

STIDHAM: No objection, your Honor.

THE COURT: Alright, it may be received without objection.

CROW: Your Honor, may we approach the bench please?

THE COURT: Yes.


BENCH CONFERENCE

CROW: (Inaudible whisper)

THE COURT: Oh yeah, okay, yeah sure, well you've already, you know, you've already made your record on that.

CROW: I want to make sure… 

THE COURT: Oh you're not

CROW: …to raise everything, every issue 

THE COURT: You don't, you don't have to re-raise it.

CROW: (Inaudible whisper)

THE COURT: Okay.

STIDHAM: Thank you, your Honor.



RETURN TO OPEN COURT

FOGLEMAN: May I exhibit your Honor?

THE COURT: Yes.

FOGLEMAN: And what were the circumstances in which this photograph was shown to the defendant?

RIDGE: Okay, the defendant had been talking, he had gotten to where he had almost not been talking, he'd slowed down on giving any information. At which time Inspector Gitchell left the office and came back with this picture.

FOGLEMAN: Okay, and what did he do?

RIDGE: He showed the picture to Jessie.

FOGLEMAN: And uh, what was the defendant's response.

RIDGE: He grabbed the picture, he set back in his seat, he became fixated on this picture, he just, just had it in his hand, you could tell he, it was tense, he just intently looked at this picture.

FOGLEMAN: And then what happened?

RIDGE: He wasn't answering any more questions, he just, like he was so fixated on the picture that he wouldn't, he wasn't talking, wasn't saying anything just looking at the picture. We had to physically take the picture away from him or just pull it out of his hands. And laid it down on the desk and he just continued to look at the picture. 

FOGLEMAN: Alright. And then what happened?

RIDGE: Uh, Inspector Gitchell actually moved the picture out of his sight and we continued to talk to him. 

FOGLEMAN: Alright. And um, (pause) alright now at some point did you leave the room?

RIDGE: Yes sir.

FOGLEMAN: Alright. Now before you left the room, what else occurred?

RIDGE: Okay, a tape recorder with a short session was played where the defendant could hear it.

FOGLEMAN: Alright, where you said a short session, what – 

RIDGE: Just a very few words were said, by a young person on this tape.

FOGLEMAN: Do you know whether or not the person's voice was somebody that the defendant was acquainted with?

RIDGE: Yes sir, I think he is, yes.

FOGLEMAN: Alright. In fact, did the defendant say something about where he had been, like the night before or something?

RIDGE: I was made aware of where he had been –

FOGLEMAN: You weren't present –

RIDGE: -- the night before. 

FOGLEMAN: You don't remember the defendant saying anything about that?

RIDGE: Uh, no sir.

FOGLEMAN: Okay. Now, what was your purpose in leaving the room?

RIDGE: Okay. We had just played this tape, and Jessie says something to the effect that uh, I want out of this, I want to tell you everything, at which time we started asking him some more questions. We asked about this third telephone call, that's when that third telephone call came in, and he tells us about what Damien had said in the background. And I felt this was extremely good information and that uh, we were at the verge of getting a good witness. And I wanted, I just decided it was time to take a break and I wanted to inform Sgt. Allen of this information.

FOGLEMAN: Alright. Now, up to this point, um, did you have any reason to, to, to um, to suspect that the defendant was involved?

RIDGE: No sir.

FOGLEMAN: Alright. Had y'all uh...what was the demeanor or the atmosphere when y'all were questioning him? 

RIDGE: It was, mostly we were just as nice as we could be. We didn't uh, we weren't hollering, we weren't loud, it was just as though I'm talking to you right now. 

FOGLEMAN: Alright, well you said mostly, wha –

RIDGE: That's all. I mean, there, there wasn't anything except the incident with the picture that you could see there was stress. 

FOGLEMAN: Okay.

RIDGE: The incident with the tape recorder, when he reacted like I want out of this, I want to tell you everything.

FOGLEMAN: Okay. Now, was there something about a circle?

RIDGE: Uh, yes sir.

FOGLEMAN: Alright, was that before you left the room or after you returned?

RIDGE: That was before I left the room.

FOGLEMAN: Alright. What was, what was that about?

RIDGE: Okay, there was a, it's an interrogation technique that Inspector Gitchell used. It's basically a circle that would be drawn on a piece of paper, there were dots all over the paper, uh, where are you in this circle. That is a question that was asked of the defendant. Are you a witness, are you a defendant, what are you?

FOGLEMAN: Okay. Alright, now, um. After you went out, uh, of the room, what happened next? 

RIDGE: Okay, I was talking with Sgt. Allen about what he had told us about the telephone call and what he had heard Damien say in the background, and Inspector Gitchell came out and informed me that he had just told him he was there when the boys were killed.

FOGLEMAN: Alright. Now at, from that point on, how did you preserve the conversation?

RIDGE: Everything that was said from that point on during the interviews was taped.

FOGLEMAN: Alright. Now, during the, the, um, the portion where the conversation was tape recorded, did the defendant provide some information about some tennis shoes?

RIDGE: Yes sir, he did.

FOGLEMAN: Alright. And were these his shoes or somebody else's shoes?

RIDGE: He said they were his shoes.

FOGLEMAN: Alright. And do you remember what kind of shoes they were?

RIDGE: He said they were blue and white Adidas tennis shoes. 

FOGLEMAN: Alright. 

FOGLEMAN: Did he say what he had done with the shoes?

RIDGE: Yes sir, he did.

FOGLEMAN: Alright, what did he say he had done with the shoes?

RIDGE: He said those were the shoes that he had worn the night of the murders.

FOGLEMAN: And what did he say he had done with them?

RIDGE: He said that he gave those shoes to Buddy Lucas.

FOGLEMAN: Alright. I wanna show you what I've marked for identification purposes as State's Exhibit 95 and ask if you can identify those. (crinkle) You can open the bag.

RIDGE: Yes sir, I can identify them. 

FOGLEMAN: Alright, and what are those?

RIDGE: Uh, these are the shoes recovered from Buddy Lucas.

FOGLEMAN: And what kind of shoes are they?

RIDGE: They are blue and white Adidas tennis shoes.

FOGLEMAN: Your Honor, we would offer State's Exhibit 95.

STIDHAM: No objection, your Honor.

THE COURT: Alright, it may be received without objection. You may exhibit.

FOGLEMAN: I don't -- they can look at them later, I don't want to pass around tennis shoes. I don't have any further questions at this time, your Honor.

STIDHAM: These, uh, tennis shoes, Officer Ridge, were they sent to the Crime Lab for analysis?

RIDGE: Yes sir, they were.

STIDHAM: Did they come back with anything positive or anything linking Mr. Misskelley to the scene of the crime?

RIDGE: No sir.

STIDHAM: Let's talk about uh, the interrogation on June the 3rd. Um, some point Officer Allen picked up Mr. Misskelley --

RIDGE: Yes sir.

STIDHAM: -- that morning, brought him to the department about what time?

RIDGE: I think he picked him up at about 9:30.

FOGLEMAN: Your Honor, your Honor. 

STIDHAM: When did you begin to --

FOGLEMAN: Nevermind, he's going on. Nevermind.

STIDHAM: When did you begin to take part in the interrogation?

RIDGE: Uh, it was about, 10:30 I guess. I can look at the Subject Description form, the time is at the bottom of it when I walked into the room.

STIDHAM: Okay. Now when you walked into the room you begin to ask Mr. Misskelley questions about participation in a cult? 

RIDGE: Yes sir.

STIDHAM: Okay. And you also begin to ask him about his whereabouts on May the 5th, is that correct? 

RIDGE: Yes sir, that's it.

STIDHAM: So is it safe to assume that at this point in time Mr. Misskelley is a suspect? 

RIDGE: No sir.

STIDHAM: You mean to tell me, Officer, that you got him down at the police department you're asking him where he was on May the 5th and he's not a suspect?

RIDGE: Yes sir, that's correct, he was not a suspect at that point.

STIDHAM: So you were just bringing in everybody off the street and asking them these same questions?

RIDGE: Brought in very many people off the street and asked them questions about their whereabouts to see if they could remember that date.

STIDHAM: And what happens if somebody couldn't remember, did that mean they're become a suspect, or... 

RIDGE: Not necessarily, no sir.

STIDHAM: Well, tell the jury what the basis of this cult stuff is. You'd received some information, I assume.

RIDGE: Yes sir, we'd received some information that a cult-like group existed.

STIDHAM: Okay. And did you also receive some information that Jessie had been to one of these meetings? 

RIDGE: Yes sir.

STIDHAM: And where was this meeting held?

RIDGE: Somewhere in the area of Turrell, is what I understand.

STIDHAM: Okay, were you ever able to locate this spot?

RIDGE: I was taken to a spot where it was supposed to have taken place, yes sir.

STIDHAM: Did you find any upside-down crosses, or anything that would suggest that this was a cult place, or, uh, what, anything. Did you find anything there?

RIDGE: No sir.

STIDHAM: Um, did that surprise you that you didn't find anything?

RIDGE: No sir.

STIDHAM: Now, later on, um, Jessie in this story that he tells you, he tells you several people were in this cult with him? Is that correct?

RIDGE: Yes sir.

STIDHAM: Were you able to confirm any of these people as being members of this cult?

RIDGE: No sir.

STIDHAM: Did you ask these people whether they were in this cult?

RIDGE: Yes sir, I did.

STIDHAM: Did you also find out that some of these people that Jessie were naming were, were possibly enemies of his --

RIDGE: I don't --

STIDHAM: -- people that he had conflicts with in the past?

RIDGE: I wasn't aware that he had had conflicts with them, no sir.

STIDHAM: Was there anything found at the crime scene to indicate uh, that this was a cult killing, any upside-down crosses, or carvings on a tree with 666, anything that would make this look like a cult killing?

RIDGE: Well, sir, I'm not an expert on the occult-type killings.

STIDHAM: Okay. Well, didn't the police department receive some information and anonymous tips through America's Most Wanted that, and other tips anonymously that this was a cult killing? 

RIDGE: Yes sir, we had received information to that effect. 

STIDHAM: So y'all were looking into that -- 

RIDGE: Yes sir.

STIDHAM: -- that angle.

RIDGE: Yes sir.

STIDHAM: Okay. And so someone had told you that Damien was involved in this kind of stuff, is that a correct statement?

RIDGE: Yes sir, it is.

STIDHAM: So, is it safe to assume that Damien was your prime suspect at this point, on June the 3rd?

RIDGE: He was one of several suspects, yes sir.

STIDHAM: Did you ever find any people who had ate dogs, or, or uh, cooked dogs or skinned dogs with Jessie, er, like he said in this story that he told you?

RIDGE: (makes breathing noise)

FOGLEMAN: Your Honor, I think that would call for the officer to draw a conclusion about whether or not somebody ate a dog or not. I don't think it's a proper question.

THE COURT: Rephrase your question. You might ask him did he ever find anybody that he could confirm, or what have you. You're asking him, you're asking him to speculate on what he did find the way you phrased the question, so rephrase it.

STIDHAM: Did you find anything, any confirmation whatsoever, that there was a cult or Jessie was involved in a cult.

RIDGE: Yes sir, I did.

STIDHAM: And, what is that?

RIDGE: Okay, a young man by the name of Ricky Climer, in another state, that is separated from this group --

STIDHAM: Okay, I don't want you to tell me what - what he - what this person has said, because there may be an objection to that later on. But anybody else, besides Mr. Climer?

RIDGE: Yes sir, there were other people talked to.

STIDHAM: Now, um, this information about this cult meeting in Turrell, didn't find anything there?

RIDGE: No sir, I didn't.

STIDHAM: Did this person who told you about the meeting tell you about a certain individual who was there?

RIDGE: Yes sir.

STIDHAM: What was that individual's name?

RIDGE: A Michael Shaun Webb.

STIDHAM: You ever been able to determine where this person is?

RIDGE: No sir, not yet.

STIDHAM: Have you ever been able to determine whether or not he even exists?

RIDGE: Yes sir, he does exist.

STIDHAM: But you don't know where he's at?

RIDGE: I know he's somewhere in Memphis.

STIDHAM: Okay. Now you testified earlier in a different hearing, Officer Ridge, that uh, there was rumors in West Memphis that were running rampant, that Damien, uh, was involved in these murders. Is that correct?

RIDGE: There were rumors that Damien was involved, yes sir.

STIDHAM: Okay, and those were pretty common throughout West Memphis and Marion?

RIDGE: Yes sir.

STIDHAM: Now, you stated that there was a time when you decided that it was important to turn on the tape recorder -- 

RIDGE: Yes sir.

STIDHAM: -- and record the, um, information that Mr. Misskelley was giving you. Why didn't you record anything up to that point?

RIDGE: (stammers a little) -- it wasn't discovered he was a suspect until he said he was there at the time of the murders.

STIDHAM: That's when you decided it was important to record all of it then?

RIDGE: Yes sir.

STIDHAM: Okay. Did you write down everything and every question that you asked him prior to turning on the tape recorder -- 

RIDGE: No --

STIDHAM: -- In other words, does your notes reflect everything?

RIDGE: Everything? No sir, it does not.

STIDHAM: Can you remember everything that was asked and answered?

RIDGE: Can't remember everything, no sir.

STIDHAM: Now, um, initially, Mr. Misskelley denied any involvement whatsoever in this, didn't he?

RIDGE: Yes sir, he did.

STIDHAM: Did he also tell you that he was roofing that day?

RIDGE: Yes sir, he did.

STIDHAM: On June the 3rd, did you make any attempt whatsoever to verify this? 

RIDGE: On June the 3rd, no sir.

STIDHAM: Prior to making any other arrests in this case did you verify that? 

RIDGE: Before making other arrests? No sir. 

STIDHAM: Okay. Now, um, Officer Ridge, the photograph that was just introduced into evidence depicting one of the boys' bodies, that was shown to Jessie?

RIDGE: Yes sir. 

STIDHAM: And this was immediately prior to him admitting and telling you this story about being present when the boys were killed?

RIDGE: Shortly before, yes sir.

STIDHAM: Okay. And also, this business about the circle with the dots in the middle and the dots on the outside, that happened right before he gave you this story about being present when the boys were killed?

RIDGE: Yes sir.

STIDHAM: And also this little tape recorded message from, from uh, with the little boy's voice on there, that was immediately before, uh, his admitting that he was present at the scene, is that correct? 

RIDGE: Few minutes before, yes sir.

STIDHAM: Why did you guys do that? Why did you do the circle, why did you do the tape, why did you, uh, show him the photograph?

FOGLEMAN: Your Honor. Excuse me. Your Honor, Detective Ridge has testified that Inspector Gitchell did that. I think the appropriate person to ask why somebody did something would be Inspector Gitchell. 

STIDHAM: Judge, he was there.

THE COURT: Well if he knows why, I'm gonna let him testify. If, if you really want him to answer that question, I'm gonna let him do it. If he knows why and...

STIDHAM: There had to be a reason to do that.

RIDGE: There are times when Jessie would not be talking, he's, he's getting slower with information, he's, he's telling us things that are just, it's over and over the same thing. Those techniques are used to evoke a response.

STIDHAM: So you did these things, you and Inspector Gitchell did these things, to invoke a response?

RIDGE: Yes sir.

STIDHAM: Invoke - confession.

RIDGE: Invoke a response, to keep him talking.

STIDHAM: Did it ever occur to you that, uh, Mr. Misskelley has a mental handicap?

RIDGE: No sir, it didn't to me on that date.

STIDHAM: Do you have any special training dealing with people with mental handicaps?

RIDGE: No sir. 

STIDHAM: Did it ever occur to you that, that this was going to scare him, showing a picture of a body?

RIDGE: (sigh) That it would scare him? (sigh) I don't know, I guess he was scared into making a statement, yes sir.

STIDHAM: Did, uh, you think it was going to scare him when you uh drew this, or when Inspector Gitchell drew this circle and made this diagram? Did you think that was gonna scare him?

RIDGE: Not to scare him, no sir.

STIDHAM: Did you think this little tape recorded statement with the little boy's eerie voice, saying what it said, did you think that would scare him?

RIDGE: Yes sir, I thought that probably would scare him if he was involved.

STIDHAM: And you did that to invoke a response.

RIDGE: Inspector Gitchell did that, yes sir.

STIDHAM: Tell the jury, if you would please, about this circle. 

RIDGE: This circle? 

STIDHAM: Can you describe it, please?

RIDGE: It's just a circle drawn on a piece of paper, there are dots on that piece of paper, when it's shown to Mr. Misskelley, then it was asked where on this circle he was. Was he inside with the people that everybody was looking for, was he outside? We asked him where was he. 

STIDHAM: And he replied, "I want out."

RIDGE: Yes sir.

STIDHAM: Officer Ridge, when you testified earlier that when he looked at the picture of the boy's body he was fixated?

RIDGE: Yes sir.

STIDHAM: Kinda frozen? He just sit there and looked at it? 

RIDGE: Yes sir.

STIDHAM: Is that indicative of fear?

RIDGE: I would think so, yes sir. 

STIDHAM: How long was Mr. Misskelley at the station house that day?

RIDGE: That day? From about whenever he was picked up, at 9:30 I guess, until he was arrested that day.

STIDHAM: What time was he placed under arrest?

RIDGE: Uh, far as I'm concerned, he was under arrest when he confessed to these crimes.

STIDHAM: When he said he was present and watched Damien and Jason do it?

RIDGE: Yes sir.

STIDHAM: That's the point that you considered him under arrest?

RIDGE: Yes sir.

STIDHAM: Let's talk a little bit about what he told you. Um, I guess you were real shocked, because you testified at the earlier hearing that, that you were shocked, when he told you that the little boys were killed at noon?

RIDGE: Yes sir.

STIDHAM: And why did that shock you? 

RIDGE: I didn't feel that the murders took place at that time.

STIDHAM: And what evidence did you have before you to suggest that?

RIDGE: There was a window of opportunity when the murders could have occurred, which we had found was between 6:30 on the 5th of May until 1:30, or approximately 1:30 when the bodies were found the next morning on the 6th. Next, next afternoon.

STIDHAM: So you knew then, that the boys were in school that day?

RIDGE: Yes sir.

STIDHAM: That'd be a fair statement. And you also knew that there were eyewitnesses who placed them near their homes, uh, at 6 or 6:30.

RIDGE: Near their homes, yes sir. 

STIDHAM: Okay. So you knew then, that the murders couldn't have happened at noon?

RIDGE: Yes sir. 

STIDHAM: Why didn't you ask Jessie about that on the tape?

RIDGE: He was asked about that on the tape.

STIDHAM: When? I mean, later on --

RIDGE: Tape Inspector Gitchell.

STIDHAM: The second tape.

RIDGE: Yes sir.

STIDHAM: But you were the one doing the interrogating on the first tape.

RIDGE: Yes sir.

STIDHAM: But you didn't think it was important enough to go into that while you had the tape recorder on the first time?

RIDGE: Yes sir, it's all important. It was important that we keep him talking, when you start contradicting somebody, then they stop talking.

STIDHAM: I guess you were also shocked when you learned that, uh, Jessie had stated the boys were tied up with a brown rope?

RIDGE: Yes sir.

STIDHAM: And you knew that wasn't true.

RIDGE: I don't know that at some point they weren't tied up with a rope.

STIDHAM: That's not the way the bodies were found, is it Officer?

RIDGE: No sir.

STIDHAM: After Jessie told you that, that uh, he was present and watched Damien and Jason kill these three little boys, did you ever make an attempt on June the 3rd to verify where he was at or what he had told you earlier? About not, about roofing that day, or being home that afternoon.

RIDGE: On that day we took the statement and everything he had told us, and we acted on it.

STIDHAM: I guess you were pretty happy that, that he had given this statement.

RIDGE: That's a fair judgment, yes sir.

STIDHAM: There was a lot of pressure on the police department to make an arrest, wasn't there?

RIDGE: I'm not saying to make an arrest, to solve the crime.

STIDHAM: Pass the witness. 

FOGLEMAN: This business about him, um, about checking out his story, uh, when you've got a person that's confessing a crime to you, do you just interrupt 'em in the middle of their confession, say well let me go out and, and check and, and see where you were that day, see if what you're telling us about where you were that day is that correct. Can you do that?

RIDGE: No sir, you can't do that. 

FOGLEMAN: Alright. Now did you later -- or first of all, what did he tell you about where he was that day?

RIDGE: He said he had been roofing earlier that day and that he had gotten off work at --

FOGLEMAN: What time?

RIDGE: He said 5:00.

FOGLEMAN: Alright. And did you check with the person he was doing the roofing for?

RIDGE: Yes sir, I did.

FOGLEMAN: You talked to him.

RIDGE: Yes sir.

FOGLEMAN: And did you find out that Jessie wasn't telling you the truth about how long he had been working that day?

RIDGE: Yes sir, I did find out.

FOGLEMAN: In fact, what time did you find out he got off work?

RIDGE: 12:30 that afternoon.

FOGLEMAN: Now, this business about the defendant being scared, uh, was it your perception that he was scared of you or scared of the situation he was finding himself in?

RIDGE: The sit --

STIDHAM: Your Honor, I object, that calls for speculation.

FOGLEMAN: Your Honor, he's asking him about him being scared, I think we're ought to be allowed to, to inquire into that.

STIDHAM: Judge, I think it's obvious what he was scared of.

CROW: (inaudible) your Honor, they're calling for speculation.

FOGLEMAN: Well, your Honor, if that question calls for speculation, the question to Detective Ridge -- 

THE COURT: Well gentlemen, I think you can argue, each of you can argue your perception of the observation of the witness, that he was scared. I think that's a question of argument, and I'm going to let it go at that.

FOGLEMAN: Alright. In regard to the circle, when this circle was drawn, are there any particular, were there any particular number of dots inside or outside the circle?

RIDGE: There were dots all over the paper.

FOGLEMAN: Alright. Alright. Do you remember how many dots were inside the circle?

RIDGE: Not in particular, no sir, I don't.

FOGLEMAN: Okay. Can you say whether it was, uh, you don't have any idea?

RIDGE: No sir, I really don't know.

FOGLEMAN: Okay. Did you do that?

RIDGE: No sir, Inspector Gitchell did that.

FOGLEMAN: Okay. In regard to this, to Mr. Stidham's question in regard to uh, confirming any of this satanic activity and eating dogs and that kind of stuff, uh, were, were y'all ever directed to sites in the Lakeshore and Highland Park area, uh, where animal carcasses were found?

RIDGE: Yes sir.

FOGLEMAN: And what type of graffiti was found in that same area?

RIDGE: Uh, there were pentagrams, uh, upside-down crosses, uh, writings, AC/DC, uh --

FOGLEMAN: Heavy metal type stuff?

RIDGE: Yes sir. Uh, all kinds of symbols.

FOGLEMAN: I don't have any further questions at this time.

STIDHAM: Officer Ridge, you're talking about Stonehenge, right?

RIDGE: I'm talking about several different areas, around and close to Lakeshore.

STIDHAM: How do you know that this isn't a bunch of kids getting together and playing loud music and, and drinking beer?

RIDGE: I don't know that.

STIDHAM: Thank you.

FOGLEMAN: Would you expect to find these animal carcasses around with a bunch of kids that are just drinking beer and playing loud music?

RIDGE: I wouldn't think so, no sir.

FOGLEMAN: And on these people that, uh, that Jessie identified as possibly being involved, would you ex -- did you expect for any of them to admit that they had been involved in eating dogs?

RIDGE: No sir.

FOGLEMAN: Alright. I don't have any further questions.

STIDHAM: Did you find out anything from talking to people to indicate they were being deceptive with you, when you asked them about their cult activity?

RIDGE: That they were being deceptive? Just that they denied being a member.

STIDHAM: Did you have any reason to disbelieve them?

RIDGE: No sir.

STIDHAM: So you can't prove that any of those people that he said were in this cult were in this cult, can you?

RIDGE: No sir, I can't prove that.

STIDHAM: No further questions.

FOGLEMAN: I don't have any further questions.

THE COURT: Are you through with him? 

(somebody mumbles)

THE COURT: Well, go back to the back room again. If there is a back room (chuckles), I don't know.

STIDHAM: May I suggest that we take a five or ten minutes recess?

THE COURT: That's alright. Alright ladies and gentlemen, again with the usual admonition, you may stand in recess for five to ten minutes. 

RECESS

BACK TO OPEN COURT

FOGLEMAN: I'm going to wait for them to close the door, there's too much racket down the hall.

(brief pause)

FOGLEMAN: Detective Ridge, I neglected to ask you something. In regard to State's Exhibit 95, when did you recover those shoes from Buddy Lucas?

RIDGE: On 6/10 of 93.

FOGLEMAN: June the 10th?

RIDGE: Yes sir.

FOGLEMAN: I want to show you what I've marked for identification purposes as State's Exhibit 78, 79, and ask if you recognize those photographs?

RIDGE: Yes sir, I do.

FOGLEMAN: Alright. And when were those photographs taken?

RIDGE: In Lt. Hester's office at the police department on 6/3 of 93.

FOGLEMAN: And do those fairly and accurately portray the defendant as he appeared on the date of his arrest?

RIDGE: Yes sir, they do.

FOGLEMAN: Your Honor, we would offer State's Exhibit 78 and 79.

THE COURT: Alright.

CROW: We object, your Honor.

THE COURT: Pardon?

STIDHAM: We object, those don't fairly and accurately depict the way he appeared on, on May the 5th. 

THE COURT: Well, the witness has indicated that's the way he appeared at the date of his arrest, and they'll be received for that purpose. 

FOGLEMAN: That's all, your Honor.

THE COURT: Anything else? 

STIDHAM: Nothing further, your Honor.

THE COURT: This time you can really go back there.

RIDGE: Thanks.

THE COURT: Call your next witness.




January 28, 1994 

FOGLEMAN: We call Glen Massengale. Your Honor, I think we’re going to have a stipulation about this. I want to make sure what exhibits I need to get a stipulation in. (??? on?)

(THE FOLLOWING CONFERENCE WAS HELD AT THE BENCH OUT OF THE HEARING OF THE JURY)

STIDHAM: Your Honor, I don’t want to make a big deal about stipulating to the chain of custody. We just don’t want to require him to call the officer - - 

FOGLEMAN: Well, I think for the record we’ll need a stipulation. Well, I’ll just put him on.

CROW: We don’t mind stipulating for the record that there’s no chain of custody problem.

DAVIS: You can do that at the bench.

THE COURT: Yes, if you are stipulating that you waive any objection to the chain of custody, then he might be able to eliminate witnesses if that’s what you want to do.

CROW: Yes, your Honor.

THE COURT: It may be so stipulated.

FOGLEMAN: We call Bryn Ridge.

BRYN RIDGE
having been previously sworn to speak the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth then further testified as follows:

REDIRECT EXAMINATION
BY FOGLEMAN:
Q: Detective Ridge, you are the same Detective Ridge that has previously testified?

A: Yes, sir.

Q: On June third, 1993, after the defendant gave his confession, were search warrants obtained?

A: Yes, sir.

Q: Did you participate in these searches?

A: Yes, sir, I did. 

Q: Among other things obtained, I want to show you State’s Exhibit 90 and 91 and ask you if you can identify those items?

A: (EXAMINING) Yes, sir. I can identify them.

Q: How can you identify them?

A: It has my initials and the date.

Q: Which one is that?

A: Exhibit 91.

Q: And where did you obtain that item?

A: These are the boots worn by Damien Echols. I took ‘em from him at the time of the arrest.

FOGLEMAN: Your Honor, we offer State’s Exhibit 91.

STIDHAM: Your Honor, may we approach the bench?


(THE FOLLOWING CONFERENCE TOOK PLACE AT THE BENCH OUT OF THE HEARING OF THE JURY)

CROW: This was discussed yesterday, I believe. We raised an objection on this - - 

STIDHAM: I don’t know whether the Court made a ruling or not. We want to raise it again. We object to any evidence introduced to show that Damien and Jason may - 
 
CROW: - - The Court may have already ruled on it. We just want it clarified. 

THE COURT: Yes, I think I did. I’m allowing the State to produce all the events and circumstances that relates to the crime itself and if that includes evidence of the other two defendants in this case, that is permissible because Misskelley is being tried separately from them anyway.

STIDHAM: We would like to raise our same objection that we made in our motion in limine for the record.

THE COURT: Okay.


(RETURN TO OPEN COURT)

FOGLEMAN: Your Honor, we offer State’s Exhibit 91.

THE COURT: All right. It may be received.

(STATE’S EXHIBIT 91 IS RECEIVED IN EVIDENCE)

BY FOGLEMAN:
Q: Would you open State’s Exhibit 91?

A: (COMPLIES) You want them brought out?

Q: Yes.

A: (COMPLIES)

Q: Those are the boots that you took from Damien Echols?

A: Yes, sir.

Q: Can you identify State’s Exhibit 90?

A: (EXAMINING) Yes, sir, I can.

Q: How can you identify it?

A: My initials and the date.

Q: Where did you obtain that item?

A: From Damien’s house belonging to Jason Baldwin.

Q: Where did you get them?

A: They were given to me by Detective Lieutenant Sudbury.

FOGLEMAN: We would offer for identification purposes Exhibit 90.

THE COURT: It may be received for identification.

(STATE’S EXHIBIT 90 IS RECEIVED FOR IDENTIFICATION)

BY FOGLEMAN:
Q: I want to show you State’s Exhibit 83 and ask if you can identify that?

A: (EXAMINING) Yes, sir, I can.

Q: How can you identify that?

A: Again by my initials and the date.

Q: Where did you receive that item?

A: It was seized consequent [sic] of a search warrant executed at the residence of Damien Echols. 

Q: Who did you receive it from?

A: It was in his bedroom.

Q: Did somebody else secure it and give it to you?

A: I was in the room when it was actually found and saw it and I believe Kermit Channel actually picked it up and gave it to me.

FOGLEMAN: We offer that for identification purposes at this time, Exhibit 83.

THE COURT: It may be received for identification.

(STATE’S EXHIBIT 83 IS RECEIVED FOR IDENTIFICATION)

BY FOGLEMAN:
Q: Back on the crime scene, I’m not sure that we made this clear but what blood, if any, was found there at the crime scene prior to Michael, Steve and Chris being removed?

A: None.

Q: None?

A: None.
